# Human Detection Application Backend

This is the backend service for the Human Detection Application, built with FastAPI and Pydantic, and containerized using Docker.

## Table of Contents

- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Usage](#usage)

## Directory Structure

```
├── app
│   ├── client/
│   ├── config/
│   ├── data_management/
│   ├── database/
│   ├── routers/
│   ├── schemas/
│   ├── utils/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── debugger.py
│   └── main.py
├── client_specs/
├── Dockerfile
├── docker-compose.yml
├── docker-compose.dev.yml
├── pyproject.toml
└── README.md
```

The current directory contains the backend application built with FastAPI.

- **`Dockerfile`**: Docker configuration for containerizing the application backend.
- **`docker-compose.yml`**: Docker compose for running containerized backend.
- **`docker-compose.dev.yml`**: Docker compose for running containerized backend with development settings: with automatic update upon changes in the backend code and with debugging option.
- **`pyproject.toml`**: Python project configuration file.
- **`README.md`**: the current `README.md` file.

### `app/`

This folder contains the main source code of the application backend.

- **`app/client/`**: Implementation of main application logic for different types of Console clients and a factory for managing client instances.
- **`app/config/`**: Console configuration settings and environment variables.
- **`app/data_management/`**: Data processing/pipeline, flatbuffers and its generated python equivalent.<br/>
 The Python code in the SmartCamera directory is generated by the flatbuffers compiler, `flatc`. These files can be obtained from [aitrios-sdk-deserialization-sample
](https://github.com/SonySemiconductorSolutions/aitrios-sdk-deserialization-sample). More info on how to install flatbuffers compiler [https://github.com/google/flatbuffers?tab=readme-ov-file#quick-start](https://github.com/google/flatbuffers?tab=readme-ov-file#quick-start).
- **`app/routers/`**: API endpoint definitions of the current backend.
- **`app/schemas/`**: Pydantic models for data validation and serialization.
- **`app/utils/`**: Utility functions, including authentication and logging.
- **`app/main.py`**: The entry point of the application backend. It initializes the routers and runs the main workflow.
- **`app/debugger.py`**: Contains functions used to eneable backed debugging functionality.
- **`app/__init__.py`**: A file used to mark `app/` directory as a Python package.

### `client_specs/`

Contains OpenAPI specifications used to generate python clients.
- [**`aitrios-console-openapi.json`**](./app/client_specs/aitrios-console-openapi.json): AITRIOS Console v1 (1.8.2)
- [**`aitrios-console-v2-openapi.json`**](./app/client_specs/aitrios-console-v2-openapi.json): AITRIOS Console v2 (2.0.0)

## Usage

### Provide the credentials

Refer to the client application list of "Portal for AITRIOS" or register the client application for the sample application if necessary to get the following information:
See the chapter "Issuing a Client Secret for SDK" in ["Portal User Manual"](https://developer.aitrios.sony-semicon.com/en/edge-ai-sensing/documents/portal-user-manual/) for more information.

- Client ID
- Client Secret

Get the following required information from [this material](https://developer.aitrios.sony-semicon.com/en/file/download/edge-ai-sensing-portal-console-end-point-info/).

- Console endpoint
- Portal endpoint

And fill [console_access_settings.yaml](app/config/console_access_settings.yaml) file.

### Production

In production, you can use Docker Compose to set up the backend.

1. Run the following command to build and start the application:
    ```bash
    docker compose up --build
    ```

    This command will build the Docker images and start the backend container. You don't need to manually build the Docker image; Docker Compose handles that for you.

2. Stop using:
    ```bash
    docker compose down
    ```

### Development

For development, we also use Docker Compose to run the backend, with volume mounts to reflect code changes without needing to rebuild the image.

1. Run the following command to start the backend and database with development settings:
    ```bash
    docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml up --build
    ```
2. Once the containers are up, you can edit the code in the app/ directory, and changes will be reflected automatically without needing to rebuild the image.
3. Stop the backend using:
    ```bash
    docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml down
    ```
